“VIFICHWAVYO” or “THE HIDDEN”.

The Hidden is an exhibition in which I took part in the curation. This was a photography and installation exhibition that included art by artist/curator Getrude Malizeni.  The exhibition aimed to explore the women who are less celebrated in our communities or societies, particularly in Tanzania. 

The exhibition highlighted and told stories of 4 different women and their daily activities. These were a beautiful salon technician, a salt artisan miner, a food vendor, locally known as Mama Ntilie, and a quarry worker. These women's activities are important in the backbone of our society as they make up for a lot of what the economy entails, and the stories are a representation of thousands of other women who do the same every day, but most of the time, they are uncelebrated. 

Their stories are never told, but their hassle is continuous, and they are the foundations of all the other activities that multitudes of people do. So as a curator, my job was to enlighten these women's activities and practices. 

So we changed the exhibition gallery into a saloon, and we also did this by installation, and we installed it like a saloon feature. whereby there was one of the women who was here through the exhibition, also plaiting people, and also helping them with their hair.  And we also changed the exhibition room to a quarry room, whereby, as these women, most of them who do quarries, are never celebrated at all, but quarries make various construction materials used every day. To raise awareness invited everybody to break these quarry stones, and be part of and reflect on the activity. 

And we also highlighted the different struggles of these women from the exhibition by showing the cultural aspects of our daily lives, by showing different things that they use to do their daily work as artifacts around their room.  

As a curator working with the artist, I aimed to speak about these women and to raise awareness about the stories these women experience. That being the case, we wanted to change this exhibition gallery into all these places at once by having installations and allowing people to come experience. 

And from the experience, perhaps being part of this exhibition, they will come out of this room, understanding how much effort it takes for these women to put in every day to make sure that our society is a stronger place, and that's the same time we make progress. 

It's the hidden or Vifichwavyo, because these stories are less celebrated every day in our society.  As a curator, it gave me the power to show how art or an exhibition could be a learning tool, or used to express a narrative and tell stories in a society. 
